The second sort of site I'm going to show you how to set up with Wordpress is an e-commerce site or
an online shop like a blog.
This is the sort of site that if you're coding from scratch it actually takes you a really long time
to set up.
You've got to have a system for adding and managing products integrating payment systems and managing
customer accounts with wordpress though it's really simple.
Now what we're doing here is not actually specific to the extreme you could use anything to do this
but the X theme does support the plug in that we're about to use very well.
So we're going to add a new plug in.
There are a number of online shop plug ins that we could use but there's one that's become almost the
standard and that is wu Comus so it's free to use at the basic level but it has all the options that
you would want in an online shop.
So there it is good ratings over a million installs.
It's very widely used.
So definitely what I would recommend if you want to set up an online shop if you're not sure that you
would want to set up an online shop by the way.
I really would encourage you to sell something on your Web site.
I really don't mind what it is.
And you might feel that you don't have anything worth selling but it's a really good experience to start
selling something small online.
It might be that you could write a book explaining how to do something you could create art and sell
that or even create a WordPress theme or plug in and sell that on your site as well.
It's a really great experience to create and market a product I really recommend you give it a go if
you can think of anything at all you might want to create.
All right.
So we've got we come up plug in installed.
Let's activate it and see how we set it up.
Here we go.
So we has got a really nice and friendly set up process.
So first off it creates these default pages for us.
So the shopping page Baskett check out my account again.
Just imagine how much work it would be to set all of this up if you weren't using some sort of plug
in like this.
Then we just put in some options for our shop.
I'll keep those defaults and then shipping and tax those are up to you.
I'd definitely recommend selling digital products if you possibly can just because they're so much less
hassle than physical ones.
Now here you can add your paypal email address.
I would recommend Paypal is a simple way of accepting payments online and I would avoid these options
unless you really have to offer them for some reason.
I'll skip that for now though.
And again I'm going to allow us to take some diagnostic data.
Seems only fair.
And then I'm going to create my first product so let's imagine that I've written a book on how to create
an online shop with commerce
excellent.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
So a quick description
we get the idea.
So you can offer product categories put in a price and even schedule various sale options put in the
description.
If you're working with physical products then you can manage the stock there as well.
Work out what you're going to charge for shipping.
You can even link products in a sort of recommended way.
So if they're looking at buying this book they might want to buy a similar book that you've written
and you can change some other settings for products as well.
You can also add an image choose categories in just the same way that we have post categories and then
you can publish your product.
Here we go and let's have a look.
Have the products in action.
There it is.
So you can see we've got a review system set up and it already looks pretty nice and I can then add
it to my basket
then view my basket.
You can get out coupon codes if you want.
Proceed to check out putting your in details and then place order.
So within just a few clicks you've got a complete shopping system set up on your Web site.
You'll notice that the shop doesn't appear automatically on the menu on the site there so it will need
to add that.
Let's get back to the dashboard
and then we'll look at appearance and menus.
And here's our menu down the left there.
So I want to add the shop to it so I just click on the shop page at the menu and save menu as well as
using cornerstone to edit our pages.
We can still use all of the standard theme editing options as well.
So now if we refresh that we should see the shop in the menu.
There we go.
And this is where all of our products would display with Ideally some nice pretty images as well.
And that's pretty much all there is to it.
The great advantage of using something like Wordpress along with a premium plugin like X and an online
shop plug in like commerce is that it enables you to set up the bones of a standard site very very easily.
So you can spend your time doing more interesting things like creating great products for people to
buy or great blog posts for people to read in their next video.
I'll set you the challenge for this section.
I think you might be able to anticipate what it's going to be.